Add AmigaOS 2.0 Barley release notes. (#248)
farm-ng/amiga-dev-kit: website/docs/release-notes/2023-11-15-version-200.md

---
id: release-02
title: AmigaOS 2.0 Barley Release Notes
authors: [mihelich, hackerman342, guilhermedemouraa]
tags: [announcement, release]
---

![barley-logo](https://github.com/farm-ng/amiga-dev-kit/assets/484900/df9e214a-1dcf-4332-acbb-b73d00e2d1fc)

We are excited to announce AmigaOS 2.0 “Barley,” a major release providing the foundation of
built-in autonomy features and powerful custom application development on the Amiga robot.

Highlights of Barley include:

* Core capabilities for autonomy and precision navigation:

>   * Precise geo-location, up to 2cm accuracy, with integrated RTK-GPS receiver.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  * Precise geo-location, up to 2 cm accuracy, with integrated RTK-GPS receiver.
```

  * Robust tracking of robot movement (position and orientation), fusing GPS, IMU, and wheel
    odometry.
* Autoplot app providing user-friendly control of the Amiga, including:
  * Teach-and-repeat workflow for automating navigation tasks.
  * Remote teleoperation from any web browser.
* Developer-focused environment for custom application development, including:
  * Ubuntu 20.04 and Jetpack 5.1 for NVIDIA Jetson ecosystem compatibility.
  * Remote SSH access from any network.
  * API access to all sensor data streams, robot state estimation and control, and autonomous track
    following.
  * Custom web application deployment to the Brain display.
  * Optional ROS bridge.
* Bandwidth-optimized over-the-air (OTA) updates for future AmigaOS releases.

:::warning Upgrading from 1.0

Due to the significant platform- and OS-level changes, existing Brains running AmigaOS 1.0 require a
one-time physical upgrade by farm-ng staff to install the GPS receiver module and re-image the Brain
to AmigaOS 2.0. Please contact support@farm-ng.com if your Brain has not been upgraded already.
Future software updates will be provided over-the-air.

> 

Reviewer: I think it's also important to clarify that this OS doesn't have backward compatibility. I.e., apps developed in the OS 1.0 won't work in the OS 2.0

:::

## AmigaOS Architecture

AmigaOS 2.0 is a major upgrade at all levels of the Brain software stack:

![AmigaOS 2 0 Layer Cake](https://github.com/farm-ng/amiga-dev-kit/assets/484900/372032c0-a5aa-4170-92f1-34bb2e6fb73c)

### Amiga Platform

At the hardware layer, the Brain now integrates a GPS receiver to track the robot’s position on
earth. GPS is indispensable for tasks that require geo-location, from simple navigation to complex
tasks like field mapping or precision agriculture. When paired with an RTK base station, GPS can

> provide up to 2cm accuracy. See our [GPS Overview](/docs/concepts/gps_service/) for more!

Reviewer: ```suggestion
provide up to 2 cm accuracy. See our [GPS Overview](/docs/concepts/gps_service/) for more!
```
